a newly released government transcript
indicates that president gerald ford
while a member of the warren commission
11 years ago
suspected that lee harvey oswald may
have been a secret undercover informer
for the fbi this 13-page document
was thought to have been lost for the
past decade
it was secured to the freedom of
information act the transcript details
how the warrant commissioners
including ford discussed rumors that
oswald may have been secretly working
for the fbi
ford voiced concern about oswald's use
of post office boxes an informer-like
activity
in attempting to make contact with
divergent factions of the communist
party
ford stated quote he
meaning oswald he was playing ball
writing letters
to both elements of the communist party
i mean he's playing ball with the
trotskyites and the others
this was a strange circumstance to me
unquote
the final page of the newly discovered
transcript indicates
why it has never been made public before
at the end of the discussion
commission member and former cia
director alan dulles proclaims
quote i think this record ought to be
destroyed
unquote eleven years ago
the warren commission attempted to
answer the questions raised by the
assassination of president john f
kennedy
for the past 11 years lawyer mark lane
has challenged the findings of the
warren commission
mr lane is the author of rush to
judgment and the citizens dissent
he speaks here before a conference
entitled the central intelligence agency
and world peace held on april 5th 1975
in new haven connecticut on the campus
of yale university
mark lane perhaps you recall that day it
was in september 1964 the
members of the wiring commission six of
them formed a semicircle in the middle
of that
was the chief justice the chairman and
the president lyndon johnson would point
to the commission to its task
earl warren held the massive document in
his hand
it was a tape recorded film document
people
reporters from all over the world
watching it and he handed it to lyndon
johnson and lyndon johnson held
in his hand was absolutely silent for
about 30 seconds and it was very
embarrassing with the
film going through the camera the tape
going through recordings he didn't say
anything
finally an aide said won't you say
something mr president
and lyndon johnson said well uh it's
very heavy
which history may record as the finest
short analysis of the warren commission
report
the uh when it was released the new york
times referred to it
as the most authoritative document the
greatest investigation
of a crime in the annals of civilization
and it is true
that the federal bureau of investigation
conducted some 25
000 interviews and re-interviews the
secret service
1550 interviews the central intelligence
agency
and the dallas police and the dallas
sheriffs all pouring their information
into the warren commission some of which
was published in the one volume report
more of which was published in the 26
volumes of evidence
and some of which has been locked away
in the files of the cia the fbi the
secret service
the department of state treasury
department and other agencies since that
time
tens and tens of thousands of documents
that's dealie plaza when the shots were
fired in d lee plaza
there were a large number of people
there yet with this massive
investigation
the commission failed to question 95
of the witnesses to the assassination of
john f kennedy
they also were supposed to find out who
killed officer tippett they said oswald
did that
but they failed to question the majority
of the important witnesses to the murder
of officer tippett
they were supposed to find out something
about the murder of lee harvey oswald by
jack ruby
and before i say anything else that's
harsh about the warren commission
let me say at this stage that not every
conclusion issued by the
warren report was invalid there was one
accurate conclusion
and that was their finding that ruby
killed oswald
but uh as you may recall that took place
on network television
and would have been difficult to deny
they were supposed to find out how it
happened however
and they failed to question 95 percent
of the
witnesses to the murder of lee harvey
oswald
by jack ruby and they failed to ask a
single relevant question of jack ruby
himself
well how do they fill up 26 volumes and
tens of thousands of files volume 18 as
an example
published in full the dental chart
showing the condition of jack ruby's
mother's teeth in the year 1938
i suggested to the commission that would
not have been a relevant document
had it been charged that ruby bit oswald
to death
but the the fbi was too busy doing other
things
let's go back now to 1963 years before
the assassination of john kennedy
and to a book written by robert kennedy
who had just before that time been
counseled to a senate committee
investigating the role of the mafia
in the united states and their effort to
take over certain trade unions
book written in 1960 the enemy within
page
i quote from one paragraph by 1949 with
the help of brennan and others jimmy
hoffa had consolidated his position in
the michigan teamsters
but outside his home state he was still
largely unknown for him the key to the
entire midwest was chicago
he needed a powerful ally there and he
found his man in paul dorfman
dorfman our testimony showed referring
to testimony before
his the commission which he was counsel
was a big operator
a major figure in the chicago underworld
who also knew his way
around in certain labor and political
circles
a slight man with thinning red hair in
an almost benign manner
dorfman took over as head of the chicago
waste handlers union
in 1939 after its founder and secretary
treasurer and council
was murdered and then he goes on to talk
about dorfan's tie-ins
with al capone and long he's willman and
he traces robert kennedy in 1963
in 1960 traced the power of the mafia
in the trading movement in chicago to
the murder which occurred in 1939 it was
the murder of leon cook
counsel for that organization he was
killed by john martin the president
of that union and that information was
given to the wiring commission
one of their six panels dealt with jack
ruby's background
and the question given to the commission
was was jack
ruby involved in that murder of which
bobby kennedy spoke three years before
his brother's assassination is that an
interesting
question well here we have the fbi
report published quite solely
in the commission's 26 volumes
commission exhibit 1235 i quote from the
fbi report to the commission
an extensive search of the records of
chicago police department
did not reflect any reference to john
martin jack rubio jack rubenstein as he
was then known
or to the murder of leon cook well
evidently the crime never took place
we found reference to it on the front
page major headline of the chicago daily
tribune
attorney shot union wrote the whole
story but how it happened how leon cook
was shot and died
shot by john martin turned to the jump
page and there they have two pictures of
what the
chicago tribune and the chicago police
considered to be
the two most relevant persons involved
leon
e r cook left lawyer and former
secretary
of the junk handlers union who was shot
while in his union offices
and jack rubinstein president secretary
who was seized for questioning
but the warren commission never heard
about it because the fbi couldn't find
any reference to this story
i think they relied upon the wrong
agency to crack the case for them
this is dealey plaza texas the
presidential limousine moved
northward got in front of the book
depository building with a very sharp
turn slowed down almost to a stop as it
made that turn
started to speed up the first car here
when the first shot was fired
here when the last shot was fired
commission's conclusion
no credible evidence even suggests that
any shots came from anywhere other than
the sixth floor of the book depository
building where they concluded was lee
harvey oswald
let's look at some of the evidence
two-thirds of the witnesses in dealey
plaza two-thirds
said the shots came from there from
behind a wooden fence high up on a
grassy knoll
every single railroad employee of the
union terminal railroad
on that railroad bridge said who was
questioned
said i heard the shots i looked in this
direction
that's where the shots came from and i
saw puffs of white smoke
come from behind the trees behind the
wooden fence
and dissipate into the air puffs of
white smoke
that was told to the warren commission
council by s m holland senior supervisor
of the union terminal railroad
lawyers seemed very disconcerted holland
said you don't have to believe me if you
don't like
ask any of the other boys whole group of
us were up there we all saw the same
thing
that was sufficient warning for the
commission they didn't call one of the
other witnesses
on the railroad bridge
when the president was shot he was
brought to the parkland hospital
where the doctors examined the wounds
that he'd suffered
they examined first of all the wound in
the president's throat every doctor at
the parkland hospital who examined that
wound who talked to the media that day
said it was a small neat wound of
entrance the president had been shot in
the throat
from the front the zapruder film which
you will see shows where the president
was looking
to the front and slightly to the right
point number one that was one shot a
bullet struck the president in the back
after he died at the parkland hospital
his body was shipped to the
the bethesda naval hospital where only
military physicians were
permitted to examine his body and
perform the autopsy
there were two fbi agents present there
fortunately during that time
seibert and o'neill they wrote a report
which was classified and later
declassified evidently apparently based
upon our history of examining how that
happened was declassified
in error in any event this is what the
zebra o'neill report revealed
that the doctors who were performing the
autopsy on the president's body in
bethesda
found the wound in the president's back
first of all they examined the clothing
in the jacket
and in the shirt there was a hole six
inches below the shoulder
slightly to the right of the spinal
column and in the same
place in the presence back was a hole
and they probed it with their finger
and with an instrument and said the
bullet had gone in but a very short
distance and then stopped and was not
present in the body
they could not figure out what happened
to that bullet and so a phone call was
made to the doctors at the parkland
hospital
they asked if they had any explanation
the doctors there said after the
president died
he was placed on the stretcher and
external cardiac massage was
administered to him
his body was struck roughly in the chest
area with the hope that his heart would
begin to beat again
it was unsuccessful shortly after that a
bullet was found on the stretcher
the doctors conducting the autopsy said
well that explains it
if the bullet entered a very short
distance it was misfired perhaps it was
a dumb dumb
in any event it was probably dislodged
as the
president's body was subjected to
external cardiac massage that's the
second vote
a third bullet was fired at least one
bullet hit governor connolly
he suffered many wounds we're dealing
with absolute minimums to see if we can
make the warren commission case stand up
but at least one bullet hit governor
connolly
a fourth bullet was fired but it missed
the uh occupants of the limousine struck
the curb
left behind some metallic material in
the curb and either the bullet
portion of the bullet or a portion of
the curb splattered up struck james take
in the face and his face began to bleed
with a superficial injury but other than
connelly severely injured
president kennedy was killed so far as
we know teg was the only other person
wounded
in the firing in daily plaza that day
that's four
a football was fired struck president
kennedy the head you'll
be able to see the film of the effect of
that bulldog on the president's head
perhaps you've seen that
on television already that was the shot
that killed the president five shots
absolute minimum five shots now a weapon
was found on the sixth floor of the book
depository building the officer founded
deputy sheriff seymour weitzman
described it in detail
in a sworn affidavit the next day as a
german mousey
30 caliber shortly after that the fbi
said oswald had purchased an italian man
liquor carcano caliber 6.5
so the dallas police said that's what we
found yesterday so overnight the weapon
changed its nationality and its size
and uh it's not a very good weapon the
one they ended up with the italian
manuka carcano
i talked about this case in milano in
rome and each time i
mentioned that the italian mandaka
karkana was the weapon which was
utilized for this precision firing that
day
the audience particularly men in their
50s or more burst into
hysteria and when i the first time said
what was funny about that one man got
up and said we always thought that the
mandica carcana was the reason
we lost world war ii
in any event the weapon was tested by
the fastest
uh rifleman east of the mississippi for
the fbi robert frazier worked the bolt
said to get the new round into the
chambers
required a minimum of 2.3 seconds
without even aiming
through the telescopic sight which to
which you'd have to add another second
so
an absolute minimum to work the bolt
this old rusty weapon
2.3 seconds absolute minimum now we have
governor connolly examining this is the
crude of film the one that you'll see so
frame by frame he said president kennedy
was struck at this frame
i was struck at this frame he swore that
he was absolutely sure mrs connolly was
seated alongside of him
corroborated his testimony if that is
true then governor connolly was struck
1.8 seconds
after president kennedy was struck
because the zapruder film and the much
more film in the next film
are all clocks once you know the speed
of the film through the camera
to prove to film 18.3 frames per second
it becomes a clock for the assassination
and therefore when you say this frame or
this frame you can tell how far apart
they are 1.8 seconds
now with the weapon that requires 2.3
seconds as an absolute minimum for an
interval period
that becomes very difficult but the
commission never bothered with that
question
at all except to say governor conley was
probably wrong he wouldn't he had a
delayed reaction
he was just struck a glancing blow the
bullet entered his back
shattered his fourth and fifth ribs
caused the chest wall to explode in a
huge sucking gaping hole which almost
cost his life
commission referred to that as a
glancing blow which he hardly noticed
now we have problems for the commission
the most serious problem for the
commission is
provided by the film some of which
you'll see a little later from the first
shot to the last the commission conceded
maximum period of time is 5.6 seconds
5.6 seconds you perceive the problem the
commission had
okay you can't get off five shots in 5.6
seconds with that weapon and that weapon
is how they're going to try to prove
oswald did it that stuck to the weapon
but the commission started with the
preconception
and they utilized the evidence or
distorted the evidence to meet the
preconception
i'll give you an example when the
commission was formed
back on january 12 1964 jay lee rank and
council of the commission held the first
press conference
which he explained to the media
published in the front page of the new
york times six-phase inquiry
headline how the commission was
organized
organized into six panels all of the
evidence which reached the wiring
commission would come through those six
panels
what were they panel number one what did
lee harvey oswald do on november 22nd
paddle number two oswald's background
three oswald in the soviet union
and oswald in the marine corps sort of a
strange juxta position
for panel number three panel number four
had ruby killer's wall five ruby's
background
which we saw they did splendidly and
panel number six
the effectiveness of the secret service
that day and providing precautions we
thought we knew the answer to that one
already
in the event those were the six panels
and when i went before the commission i
congratulated the commission
upon its development of an organization
table of organization i said i thought
the six panels were fine
i said however chief justice i would
have added
maybe a seventh panel if i was
conducting the investigation
and he said really what would you call
it and i said i'd call it uh
who killed john kennedy
because the only evidence which could
come before the commission
based upon their table of organization
relative to the death of john kennedy
was through panel one what did lee
harvey oswald do on november 22nd
and there has never been a more public
open
cover-up in the history of this country
because they said in advance what they
were going to do
and they did it now let's see how they
handled this evidence
see how they handled the evidence in
light of the preconception
how many shots can be fired with that
weapon in 5.6 seconds by one person
three is the maximum assuming the weapon
is fully loaded
there's time for two interval periods
total of three can't get four shots so
if it takes too long
based upon that information the
commission concluded
lee harvey oswald fired three shots
that's the most you can fire at the
weapon that's what he must have done
but then the question is how do you
explain all of the wounds
and all of the known results of the
bullet by the development
of the magic bullet theory which is
central to the commission's conclusion
this is the magic bullet theory there's
leah harvey oswald he's up down the
sixth floor of the book depository
building with his trusty
german italian manuka mouse at 30
caliber 1.65
here comes the president's limousine
directly in front of the book depository
building
and almost stops as it makes its turn at
this point oswald can
drop the weapon out of the window
confident that he'll injure someone
but does he even fire at that point oh
no being somewhat of a sport he waits
until the car speeds up
[Music]
as it moves rapidly away oswald fires
the first shot
the bullet strikes the president in the
back of the neck leaving behind a wound
six inches below
it exits from his throat leaving behind
a small neat wound of entrance as it
does so
it hangs out there in midair for
1.8 seconds until apparently it observes
governor connelly seated directly in
front
[Applause]
it then strikes governor connolly in the
back chat as a fourth and fifth ribs
exits from his right from his chest wall
and makes a sharp right turn
fractures his right wrist makes a u-turn
embeds itself in governor connolly's
left thigh
where it remains until external cardiac
massage is administered to president
kennedy and then falls out of his back
onto his stretcher
now is it any wonder that the inventor
of that miraculous bullet arlen specter
who became elected
district attorney of philadelphia based
upon the development of that theory
past for 11 and a half years refused to
debate with a single critic of the
warren commission
he was invited to appear on the geraldo
rivera program with us he said
he would not go on if i was there a
cyril weck was there or anybody was
going to talk about the facts
and uh rivera said i'll tell you what
we'll do if you don't want to debate
with them
we'll put them on first they can say
what they want and then you will have
the last
40 minutes all to yourself to say
whatever you want
he said i refuse to do that i'm not
going to get involved in that kind of a
situation
but he accepted the tom snyder
invitation a full hour
no debate no one asking any intelligent
questions
no one there to ask any intelligent
and when the full story is told about
the death of john kennedy
what the media did to effect in an
effort to affect the thinking of the
american people
we will then begin to unravel
the role of the cia disinformation
section
about which we now have hard evidence
for the first time regarding their
specific
role to issue false statements about the
critics of the wiring report
and about the death of john f kennedy
the government was very active in this
period very active there was not a
single lecture
the material in the archives is now
becoming more available we're starting
to see things we never saw before
there was not a single lecture which i
gave on any college campus in this
country
or before any church group but during
which there was not at least
two members of the federal bureau of
investigation present with tape
recorders
not one it's all now available in the
national archives
that's what they were doing this was
part of the job now i want to talk about
one other area
jim garrison the single most maligned
public official in this country
regarding the death of john kennedy
garrison
submitted evidence to the grand jury in
new orleans and they indicted clay shaw
and this is what
was presented to the jury garrison's
theory
that there was a conspiracy to kill john
f kennedy garrison's theory
the clay show was part of that
conspiracy and garrison's theory that
clay shaw played a part in it his
motivation being that he was working for
the central intelligence agency
and that's the part that's the reason he
played that part the evidence was
submitted to the jury the only time an
american jury
has had an opportunity to examine the
evidence
regarding the death of john kennedy 26
volumes came into court in a wheelbarrow
remember very well lieutenant colonel
pfinkel conducted the autopsy for the
government
testified you see the single bullet
theory also relies upon the fact that
the bullet which they have commissioned
exhibit 399
is responsible for all of the wounds
lieutenant colonel
an oral inspector to this day says that
still says it on television
lieutenant colonel pierre the
government's pathologist
was asked that question by jim
garrison's assistant during the trial
and he said it's impossible for the
reason
that there are more grains of metal
still in governor connolly's wrist
than are missing from that bullet that
bullet could not have done it
now you add to that counsel for the
commission statement norman redlich
assistant counsel to the wiring
commission that if you prove if you say
that the single bullet theory is not
accurate
then we would concede there was a
conspiracy to kill john f kennedy that's
how
central it becomes an analysis of all of
the evidence
and that's what fink said that that
bullet could not have caused the wound
suffered by governor connolly
not the one on the wrist certainly the
evidence was presented to the jury
the jury listened closely and the jury
concluded
number one that there was a conspiracy
to kill john f kennedy the first
american jury ever heard the evidence
the only one and the only one to reach
that conclusion
the historic moment which of course the
press has not of yet
as yet of course reported conclusion
number two
that the evidence showing shaw's
association with the assassination
did not prove his guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt although every juror
i talked and i talked to them all with a
form questionnaire every single juror
agreed
that the nine witnesses who swore that
oswald
david ferry and clay shaw were together
in clinton louisiana and elsewhere
every juror said i believe them
absolutely and i believe that shaw
committed perjury when he denied
that he knew harvey oswald okay so the
jury quits
garrison's failure to prove an
association between shaw and the cia
being a central question of in the minds
of many of the jurors
jury quits garrison indicts clay shaw
for perjury and denying that he knew
clay shaw
there's no such thing in my view as an
open and shut criminal case but we have
nine
witnesses believed by every single juror
and every single juror saying i believe
charlotte committed purging was a strong
case and then for the first time
the federal government moves in directly
and openly the federal judge in new
orleans issues an
injunction forever prohibiting jim
garrison forever
from trying clay shaw never
never happened in the history of the
country before unprecedented
that's the end of the case that's the
end of it all victor marchetti
who you you know who he is and the
position he achieved in the central
intelligence agency
at one of those meetings there during
the time of the
short trial mark eddie said at a meeting
with numbers of people including richard
helms it was said
in essence that clay shaw is ours
can't let it be known our relationship
between clay shaw
we have to do what we can to help shaw
during the trial
what do they do isn't it about time
some committee of congress since viktor
marketing made that statement over a
year ago
isn't it about time some committee of
congress invited victor marketing to
make that statement under oath and then
to call in richard helms
and ask if he or others said that and
ask them what the central intelligence
agency did
to pervert the flow and course of
justice in new orleans
i think it's about time for that so i
want to say one thing really clearly now
i've been talking about this matter for
about 11 and a half years
all over this country the assassination
of john kennedy is not a spectator sport
and we're here today not just to look at
material and get material but to change
the course of this country
when we leave here we have to do things
[Applause]
[Music]
we haven't we haven't had a real
election in this country
which has been decided by ballots
instead of bullets since john kennedy's
head was blown off
in dealey plaza who became president
after that
lyndon johnson and then elected because
john kennedy was dead and then robert
kennedy was killed in the 68 campaign
and then when the polls show that nixon
could not win because of the strong
showing
that wallace that appeared would make
according to the polls he was removed
we haven't had an election where we have
made the decision
without interference of bullets since
his head was blown off
and if that's the country we don't want
to live in we have to do something about
it we've never had the opportunity that
we have now
never watergate has brought about a
change and in the wake of watergate the
freedom of information act was signed
which says that documents that are in
the public domain
belong to us no matter what the cia or
the fbi says they belong to us
and that was passed by a strong vote of
the house and the senate
and it was vetoed by president ford
who has congressman ford signed the
warren commission report
as a member of that commission and i
tell you when the facts are disclosed
finally
one thing i believe will stand out with
absolute clarity
then congressman ford and now president
ford and the other six members of the
warren commission
because they did not take the hard
evidence available to them
and make it available to those who have
the authority to prosecute
that they are all of them accessories
after the fact
in the murder of john f kennedy
what can we do about it we set up a
committee called the citizens commission
of inquiry
just about every responsible critic of
the wiring commission
everyone who's done hard research and
others who've been involved in
peripheral areas start with mark raskin
and dick barnett the two co-directors of
the institute for policy studies bernard
fenced wall counts former council for
committees uh of the senate george
o'toole former cia
agent who's written the book
assassination tapes fletcher prouty and
many many others
morton halperin former deputy assistant
secretary of defense many people
have banned it together and we formed an
organization called the citizens
commission of inquiry
what we have done already is under the
new freedom of information act because
it was passed by an overwhelming vote
over president ford's veto we have
demanded all of the relevant material
and it's quite clear the cia the fbi
is going to be dragging their feet we're
going to have to go into court and get
that we're working out the american
civil liberties union
and with nader's freedom of information
group as well as with mort halpern's
freedom of information group we're
confident we're going to get that
material number one
secondly we're going to analyze that
material i'm teaching law at the law
school to catholic university of america
and the administration there has made it
possible for us to have an internship
program 35 law students will be getting
credit for going over that material
this year as it comes out of the
national archives
[Applause]
that material that work will be done and
that material is going to be made
available to every relevant committee of
congress which has
a responsibility to to investigate any
aspect
any aspect of the cover-up by the cia
and by the fbi
but what you have to do is see to that
your congress person
and your senator understands that it is
his or her responsibility
to fight for such an investigation there
are petitions here but that's not enough
if you think this is a matter which
belongs on the agenda for the american
people
you have to put it on the agenda for the
american people that means when
ford or any candidate for the nomination
of his party
comes or her party comes to any place
where you are any college or any
community
this question must be raised and raised
forcefully until we know where that
candidate stands
above all means forming committees in
every relevant congressional district in
this country
where there's account where there's a
congress person from that district or a
senator from that state
who has any authority in any power and
if we do that together
then 1975 with the new freedom of
information act
and the citizens commission of inquiry
and above all the work that you have to
do
if we do that together then i believe
that this year
we're going to crack the facts regarding
the cover-up of the assassination of
john kennedy the cover-up by the fbi by
the cia
and the wiring commission and i believe
that through an examination of the cover
we'll be able to follow those footsteps
right back into the conspiracy
to kill john f kennedy that can only be
done if we force the
apparatus of government to work for us
in the effort to secure the facts
rather than do what they have done for
the last eleven and a half years work in
an effort
to suppress the facts that's pretty much
up to you however
for more information about the
assassination of president john f
kennedy contact citizens commission of
inquiry 103 2nd street
northeast washington dc 2002.
this program was produced at radio
station wwuh
in west hartford connecticut